Facts:
1. After Saturn, a space-craft would have to travel 1,500,000,000 km to reach Uranus. This means the planet is almost twice the distance from the sun that Saturn is.
2. Uranus orbits the Sun on its side. Its south pole is pointed towards Earth. The angle of the tilt of the axis of Uranus is 97 degrees. This is probably due to an object the size of Earth smashing into Uranus during its formation billions of years ago.
3. If we were able to see Uranus' moons orbiting the planet, they would go over and under the planet like lights on a ferris wheel.
4. It would take you many years to fly a rocket to Uranus. When you arrived you would weigh less because Uranus' gravity is not as strong as the Earth's. If you weigh 70 pounds (32 kg) on Earth, you would weigh 62 pounds (28 kg) on Uranus.
5. Uranus also has rings, though they don't stretch out as far as the rings of Saturn. The rings of Uranus are made up of black dust particles and large rocks.
6. Uranus has 27 moons.
7. Five of these moons are large and the rest are small.
8. The largest moon is Titania, followed by Oberon, Umbriel, Ariel and Miranda.
9. Some of the smaller moons are named: Belinda, Bianca, Caliban, Cordelia, Cressida, Desdemona, Juliet, Ophelia, Portia, Puck, and Rosalind.
10. Like Jupiter and Saturn, Uranus is a gas giant.
11. But Uranus is a little different, unlike all the other planets and most of the moons in our Solar System, Uranus spins on its side.
12. It is believed that long ago a very large object smashed into this planet, the crash was so powerful that it completely changed the direction of Uranus' planetary rotation.
13. However, a more recent theory is that the extreme tilt of Uranus' axis may have been caused by a large moon that was slowly pulled away from the planet by another large planet long ago when our Solar System was still new. It is thought that the gravitational pull of this moon moving away from Uranus may have caused it to tilt on its side.
14. Like Saturn, the thick atmosphere of Uranus is made up of methane, hydrogen and helium. But Uranus is an extremely cold planet. It has been called the "ice giant."
15. It is believed that Uranus is made up of rock and ice and has a large rocky core. Because of the tremendous planetary pressure of Uranus, there could possibly be trillions of large diamonds in or on the surface of this planet.
